Add GDS Sessions (#624)
neo4j/docs-aura: modules/ROOT/pages/graph-analytics/index.adoc

[[graph-analytics-aura]]
= Graph analytics in Aura
:description: This page describes how to run graph analytics in Aura.
:page-aliases: aurads/index.adoc

If your data is in Aura or you plan to move it to Aura, you have several options to run graph analytics:

> * Enable <<aura-gds-plugin,Graph Analytics>> on an existing AuraDB instance (Professional only).
> * Use <<aura-gds-serverless,Graph Analytics Serverless>> from an existing AuraDB instance (Business Critical or Virtual Dedicated Cloud).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Enable <<aura-gds-plugin,Graph Analytics>> on an existing AuraDB instance (Professional).
* Use <<aura-gds-serverless,Graph Analytics Serverless>> from an existing AuraDB instance (Business Critical, Virtual Dedicated Cloud).
```
I reacted to the use of 'only' in the one case. this is a weak suggestion, but I'll make it anyway

> * Create an <<aura-ds, AuraDS instance>>.

Reviewer: I would love to ignore the fact I just learned, which is that we're still calling it AuraDS Enterprise, not AuraDS VDC 😑

* 4 GB of memory or more
* Any supported cloud providers and regions

You can enable or disable Graph Analytics when necessary.
Graph Analytics will share compute and memory resources with the AuraDB server, and you will not incur additional costs.

[[aura-gds-serverless]]
=== Graph Analytics Serverless

label:AuraDB-Business-Critical[] label:AuraDB-Virtual-Dedicated-Cloud[]

include::partial$EAP.adoc[]

Graph Analytics Serverless allows you to use the link:https://neo4j.com/docs/graph-data-science/current/introduction/[Graph Data Science library] in any AuraDB Business Critical or Virtual Dedicated Cloud instance instance with the following requirements:

* Neo4j version 5 or later
* Any supported cloud providers and regions

Graph Analytics TBD will run on one or more separate instances optimised for analytics workloads, which will not share any memory and compute resources with the AuraDB instances.

> You can control the shape and the number of these instances, and will only be billed for what you consume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can control the size and the number of the Serverless sessions, and will only be billed for what you consume.
```

* 4 GB of memory or more

> * Any supported cloud providers and regions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Any supported cloud provider and region
```
or
```suggestion
* All supported cloud providers and regions
```

You can enable or disable Graph Analytics when necessary.
The plugin shares compute and memory resources with the AuraDB server, so you do not incur any additional costs when you enable it.

[[aura-gds-serverless]]
== Graph Analytics Serverless

include::partial$EAP.adoc[]

Graph Analytics Serverless allows you to use the Graph Data Science library regardless of where your source data is stored.

> Graph Analytics Serverless runs in Aura as a link:https://neo4j.com/docs/graph-data-science-client/current/gds-session/[dedicated service] optimised for analytics workloads, with no memory or compute resources shared with your data store.

Reviewer: Should we maybe link to the server manual here? E.g. the page I'm currently writing

=== From an AuraDB instance

label:AuraDB-Business-Critical[] label:AuraDB-Virtual-Dedicated-Cloud[]

You can use Graph Analytics Serverless from any AuraDB Business Critical or AuraDB Virtual Dedicated Cloud instance with the following requirements:

* Neo4j version 5 or later
* Any supported cloud providers and regions

[[aura-ds]]
== AuraDS

label:AuraDS-Professional[] label:AuraDS-Enterprise[]

> AuraDS is the fully managed version of the Graph Data Science library where the <<aura-gds-plugin>> is deployed by default.

Reviewer: I think this sentence reads too strongly in favour of AuraDS (my bias is negative here).
```suggestion
AuraDS is a database service similar to AuraDB centered around the Graph Data Science library where the <<aura-gds-plugin>> is always installed.
```

* Can be seamlessly scaled up or down.
* Can be paused to reduce costs.

> Graph Analytics TBD share compute and memory resources with the AuraDS server, and it is always available.

Reviewer: the key differences between AuraDS and AuraDB Pro+plugin are:

- AuraDB Pro has no downtime during upgrades
- AuraDB Pro can add / remove Graph Analytics dynamically
- AuraDS will retain projections across upgrades or pauses
- AuraDS has more memory dedicated to Graph Analytics, and less for transactions
- AuraDS exists in both Pro and VDC tiers

The operations are non-destructive, so graph projections, models, and data present on an instance are not affected.
No operation is applied until all the running GDS algorithms have completed.

[[aura-gds-no-db]]

> == {gds-no-db-name}

Reviewer: The case `Sourced from AuraDB` comes in two variants: BC and VDC. These are customer engagement levels; self-serve vs enterprise. They also come with different maximum size and some other differences. VDC is bigger.

The other two cases have a similar dimension. It is possible to run as a self-serve user or as an enterprise user. The same limits as above will apply. Again, this is a customer engagement difference. Not entirely sure how to add this dimension here -- I'm losing the larger picture with my patchwork of suggestions.

> == {gds-no-db-name}

Reviewer: OK I have an idea. We could have a couple of paragraphs under `Graph Analytics Serverless` before the three subsections. In those paragraphs we explain the `tier` difference (maybe using a more modern term than `tier`) which is an upfront decision made by the customer; they're either a BC customer (self-serve) or a VDC customer (enterprise/sales-led).
We can probably copy or reference documentation for AuraDB that explains this difference.

{gds-no-db-name} allows you to use the link:https://neo4j.com/docs/graph-data-science/current/introduction/[Graph Data Science library] on Aura without AuraDB or AuraDS, on any supported cloud providers and regions.

> Graph Analytics TBD will run on one or more instances, optimised for analytics workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Graph Analytics Serverless is a dedicated service optimised for analytics workloads.
```

You can import your data [...]

> You can control the shape and the number of these instances, and will only be billed for what you consume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can control the size and the number of the Serverless sessions, and will only be billed for what you consume.
```

== Comparison

[opts="header", cols="1,1,1,1"]
|===

> |Graph Analytics plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|AuraDB Pro with Graph Analytics plugin
```

> |Graph Analytics Serverless

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Graph Analytics Serverless in Virtual Dedicated Cloud
|Graph Analytics Serverless in AuraDB Business Critical
```

|AuraDS

> |{gds-no-db-name}

Reviewer: I don't understand why this is its own option. I suggest we remove it. There's no technical difference in the service experience of the `Serverless` which depends on the data source used, except `write` will be off-limits.
```suggestion
```

|Up to 64 GB memory

> |Up to 512 GB memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Up to 512 GB memory
|Up to 128 GB memory
```

|Up to 384 GB memory

> |Up to 64 GB memory

Reviewer: Not sure where this limit comes from?

> |Up to 64 GB memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

|Shared resources

> |Dedicated resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Dedicated resources
|Dedicated resources
```

|Shared resources

> |Dedicated resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

|Single instance

> |Up to 10* asynchronous instances

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Up to 100 concurrent sessions
|Up to 10 concurrent sessions
```

|Single instance

> |Up to 10* asynchronous instances

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

|AuraDB source

> |AuraDB source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|AuraDB Virtual Dedicated Cloud, self-managed Neo4j DBMS, or custom data source
|AuraDB Business Critical, self-managed Neo4j DBMS, or custom data source
```

|AuraDS source

> |No Neo4j DB needed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
